Module 1 : [Overview of I.T industry]
Module 2 : [Fundamentals of Programing]
Module 3 : [OOP Concept]C++
Module 4 : [HTML & CSS]
Module 5 : [Database]

What is Computer?
Computer is an electronic device that makes human life easier and faster.

Software - Software is a thing which we cannot touch.
Hardware - Hardware is a thing which we can touch physically.

Application of computer :
School,Defense,Banking,Healthcare,etc.

What is program?
Program is a set of instructions.

What is programming?
To create a program.
eg - Using keyboard and Mouse.

Types of Programing Language :
Procedure Oriented Programing(POP) eg-C
Object Oriented Programing(OOP) eg-C++
Logical Programing eg-Prolog language
Functional Programing eg-Python language

WWW-World Wide Web
- It is a collection of webpages and websites store in web server.
- Connected to local computers through the internet.
- The websites contain text pages,digital images,audios,videos,etc.
- User can accss the content of these sites from any part of the world over the Internet using their devices such as
computers,laptops,cell phones etc.
- The www, along with internet, enables the retrieved and display of text and media to your device.

WWW - How Internet Works?
- A server is where websites are stored, and it works a lot like your computer's hard drive.
- Once a request arrives, the server retrieves the website and sends the correct data back to your computer.

Client & Servers

1. Client Program
- Running on and host
- Request Services
- E.g. Web Browser
2. Server Program
- Running on end host
- Provide Services
- E.g. Webserver

Client - Server Communication
1. Client "sometimes on"
- Initiates a request to the server when interested
- E.g. Web Browser on your laptop or cell phone
- Doesn't communicate directly with other clients
- Needs to know the server's address
2. Server is "always on"
- Server requests from many client hosts
- E.g. Web server for the www.example.com web site
- Doesn't initiate contract with the clients
- Needs a fixed, well-known address
 

Types of Internet connection:-

1) Digital Subscriber line-- The Internet that comes from phone cable to our device is known as digital subscriber line(DSL).

2)Cable Internet-- The Internet that comes from cable is known as cable Internet.

3) Fibre optic-- The cable that contains the internet and also the light is known as fibre optic cable.

4) Satellite Internet-- The internet comes from satellite to our devices.

5) Wireless-- The internet connection which does not require wire or cable is known as wireless internet.

6) Broadband Over Power Lines(BPL):- The internet that is comes from broadband device is known as BPL.

Protocols:- It is a set of rules for communication of data

1)HTTP- Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
   HTTPs- Hyper Text Transfer  Protocol secure

2)FTP-- File transfer Protocol-- To transfer the files

3) Email Protocols -- SMTP --Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

4) TCP/IP- Transmission Control Protocols/Internet Protocols--To transfer the data between the application  

What is Application Security?
- Application security refers to security precautions used at the application level to prevent the theft or hijacking of data
or code within the application.
- It includes security concerns made during application development and design, as well as methods and procedures
for protecting applications once they've been deployed.

Application Software-Eg M.s office,paint etc.
System Software- Eg Notepad,Calcuclator etc
Driver software-audio driver,video driver
Middleware software - eg Database software
Programming software EG-Turbo c,Eclipse,Sublime etc

SDLC:-

Software Development Life Cycle

There are 6 phases of SDLC:-

1) Requirement gathering
2) Analysis
3)Designing
4)Implementation or coding
5)Testing
6)Maintenance

Software Engineering--

It is a branch of engineering that helps to develop or build a software.

Layers in software architecture:-

1) Presentation layer:- It handles the interaction between UI and user

2) Application layer :- It handles the main program of our system. It includes the code definition and programs.

3) Business layer:- It handles the business of a software or application.

4) Persistance layer:- It acts as a protective layer. It is used to access database layer

5) Database layer :- It is the layer where system stores all the data.

Open closed principle - software entities should be open for extension, but closed for modification.

Environments in industry

There are different Types of envionments in Industry.
1. The analysis and design environment
2. The development environment
3. The common build environment
4.The testing environment
5.The production environment

Programming:- Programming is used to create programs and to build a application or software

It will solve complex problems

 Types of programming :-

1) Procedural Oriented Programming(POP)- C
2) Functional Programming- Python
3)Object Oriented Programming- Java,C++
4)Scripting Programming --Javascript
5) Logical Programming-- Prologit

Types of Programming languages:-

1)Low level programming language -- 0 and 1

---> Machine Language
---> Assembly language--0 and 1 or High level

2)High level programming language

3) Middle level Programming language

HTML: Hyper Text Markup Language.
CSS: Cascading Style Sheet